README.md, before:

# raru: run as random user

Does it concern you if your browser can read your SSH keys? Do you think that on most personal systems, a user account is equally valuable as root?

You can talk about secure coding practices all day long. Ultimately, your applications probably have holes, your system probably has holes, and your kernel probably has holes. For the most part, the problems get progressively more dangerous the further you get down the stack, but they start with the user account. If you run two processes as one user and one of them is hacked, it can generally run amuk and do whatever it wants to to the other process.

Good ways to thwart this:

1. Capsicum. It's in FreeBSD, pretty much a system call (`cap_enable()`) to drop the current processes' privileges. This seems to work great for applications you are coding and has already been done to some of the userland utilities on FreeBSD. So in a nutshell, if you are running `gzip` in a pipe, it doesn't need to access files other than it's open file descriptors to stdin, stdout, and stderr. You can either open a file for reading or pretty much immediately drop its privileges before the exciting code comes into place, where there's more likely to be some sort of buffer overflow. So, if you're writing something where this is relevant, use it even if you have to `#ifdef` it.

2. Jails, containers, or VMs. Not the lightest thing around, but you can make it work. You do have a lot of overhead having to maintain two "systems" and make sure what you want is on the target. This can be scripted, automated, and cleaned up, but may always be a bit overkill for some things. And as always, the easier security is, the more you'll do it.

3. Run a process as a different user ID. As long as your home is `chmod 700`ed, this pretty much drops off the front door entrace to your SSH keys, your cookies, your AWS keys, etc. This also is generally clunky and is not used as much as it should.

So, `raru`. A user account doesn't need to have an `/etc/passwd` or an `/etc/shadow` entry to be used. You can pick random UIDs.

One interesting behavior: If you `setuid()` in a folder tree of `/700/755`, you can poke around in `.`, even if you could never get there normally. `raru` works around this with `chdir("/var/empty")`

`raru` wraps your command and arguments. Unfortunately, it has to be setuid, so there's that. But, it sets a random UID and GID (both to the same) and runs the program. So you can't do `raru ls .`, because it just things `.` is `/var/empty`. But you can do, `raru ls $PWD`, which should fail if you're somewhere under `$HOME` and `$HOME` is set to `700`.

Usage:

`raru [program] <arguments>`

NOTE: `raru` does pass along the whole environment. So run `raru env` to see what this is. If you don't like that, run `env -i PATH=$PATH raru`. Might be a good alias.

### Potential use examples:

`raru make; raru ./fishy-app-youve-never-ran-before`

`raru bash # Whole shell as not-you.`

`raru curl https://fishysite`

## xraru

Browsers are almost certainly the easiest way into your system. With Javascript, optional plugins, and millions of lines required to do anything and even more to do it well, they are complicated. If they have working file dialogs beyond one directory, they probably aren't sandboxed fully. An attacker doesn't need to break your VPN, find an root-access remote hole, and then poke around your infrastructure. They just need to send you a link, compromise your system, and own you from there.

`xraru` makes this slightly less bad by sandboxing the application with `Xvnc` and connecting to it with `vncviewer`. It's slower, not resizable, not convient, and currently only supports one application at a time. It needs a lot of work. But, `xraru chrome` should load up Chrome and you can start poking away, and only worry about the dozens of millions of lines of code beneath on the system down, and not the dozens of millions of lines from the user up.

We have to start somewhere, right?

Usage:

`xraru [X program] <arguments>`

`xraru` only sets PATH and HOME environment variables. HOME is set to a temporary directory that should be cleaned up afterwards. Cleanup is buggy (best to kill with ctrl+c, not X'ing out of Chrome). Only one VNC connection is allowed, so one compromised can't spy on the others, hopefully.

### Potential use examples

1. `xraru chrome`
2. `xraru tor-browser`
3. `xraru thunderbird # Except you have to resetup your account every time. Yuck.`
4. `xraru some-game`
5. `xraru sxiv defconownsyou.jpg`
6. `xraru dwm`
7. `xraru openoffice memo.ppx`

### Dependencies

* /bin/sh
* tightvnc

## Buidling and installing

`$ make`

`# dontmake install # THIS INSTALLS AS SETUID. THINK TWICE AND READ THE CODE.`

## Gotchas

These are probably far more than listed. However, at least be aware of the following:

1. You probably want to `alias raru='env -i PATH=$PATH raru'`
2. `raru`, to work, is setuid.
3. If `raru` is not setuid, it may not error and silently give you a false sense of security. So run `raru whoami` just to be sure.
4. `raru ls .` does not work.

## License

[Unlicense](LICENSE)/Public domain

Commit message:

raru: possible local paths, xraru: copy/paste support
Lots of general cleanups. Main things are:
1. `raru` will stay in the current directory if everyone has
explict access to the path.
2. `xraru` should be slightly more predictable thanks to a `sleep`
and can now support a non-constant copy/paste integration.

README.md, after:

# raru: run as random user

Does it concern you if your browser can read your SSH keys? Do you think that on most personal systems, a user account is equally valuable as root?

You can talk about secure coding practices all day long. Ultimately, your applications probably have holes, your system probably has holes, and your kernel probably has holes. For the most part, the problems get progressively more dangerous the further you get down the stack, but they start with the user account. If you run two processes as one user and one of them is hacked, it can generally run amuk and do whatever it wants to to the other process.

Good ways to thwart this:

1. Capsicum. It's in FreeBSD, pretty much a system call (`cap_enable()`) to drop the current processes' privileges. This seems to work great for applications you are coding and has already been done to some of the userland utilities on FreeBSD. So in a nutshell, if you are running `gzip` in a pipe, it doesn't need to access files other than it's open file descriptors to stdin, stdout, and stderr. You can either open a file for reading or pretty much immediately drop its privileges before the exciting code comes into place, where there's more likely to be some sort of buffer overflow. So, if you're writing something where this is relevant, use it even if you have to `#ifdef` it.

2. Jails, containers, or VMs. Not the lightest thing around, but you can make it work. You do have a lot of overhead having to maintain two "systems" and make sure what you want is on the target. This can be scripted, automated, and cleaned up, but may always be a bit overkill for some things. And as always, the easier security is, the more you'll do it.

3. Run a process as a different user ID. As long as your home is `chmod 700`ed, this pretty much drops off the front door entrace to your SSH keys, your cookies, your AWS keys, etc. This also is generally clunky and is not used as much as it should.

So, `raru`. A user account doesn't need to have an `/etc/passwd` or an `/etc/shadow` entry to be used. You can pick random UIDs.

One interesting behavior: If you `setuid()` in a folder tree of `/700/755`, you can poke around in `.`, even if you could never get there normally. `raru` will work with local paths if it has explict access to the current working directory. If it does not, it changes its directory to `/`.

`raru` wraps your command and arguments. Unfortunately, it has to be setuid, so there's that. But, it sets a random UID and GID (both to the same) and runs the program. So you can't do `raru ls .`, because it just things `.` is `/var/empty`. But you can do, `raru ls $PWD`, which should fail if you're somewhere under `$HOME` and `$HOME` is set to `700`.

Usage:

`raru [program] <arguments>`

NOTE: `raru` does pass along the whole environment. So run `raru env` to see what this is. If you don't like that, run `env -i PATH=$PATH raru`. Might be a good alias.

### Potential use examples:

`raru make; raru ./fishy-app-youve-never-ran-before`

`raru bash # Whole shell as not-you.`

`raru curl https://fishysite`

## xraru

Browsers are almost certainly the easiest way into your system. With Javascript, optional plugins, and millions of lines required to do anything and even more to do it well, they are complicated. If they have working file dialogs beyond one directory, they probably aren't sandboxed fully. An attacker doesn't need to break your VPN, find an root-access remote hole, and then poke around your infrastructure. They just need to send you a link, compromise your system, and own you from there.

`xraru` makes this slightly less bad by sandboxing the application with `Xvnc` and connecting to it with `vncviewer`. It's slower, not resizable, not convient, and currently only supports one application at a time. It needs a lot of work. But, `xraru chrome` should load up Chrome and you can start poking away, and only worry about the dozens of millions of lines of code beneath on the system down, and not the dozens of millions of lines from the user up.

We have to start somewhere, right?

Usage:

`xraru [X program] <arguments>`

`xraru` only sets PATH and HOME environment variables. HOME is set to a temporary directory that should be cleaned up afterwards. Cleanup is buggy (best to kill with ctrl+c, not X'ing out of Chrome). Only one VNC connection is allowed, so one compromised can't spy on the others, hopefully.

If you have `autocutsel` installed, you can press F8 in vncviewer to pull or push copy buffers. If you're not sure of which buffers in X, play with `xclip`.

### Potential use examples

1. `xraru chrome`
2. `xraru tor-browser`
3. `xraru thunderbird # Except you have to resetup your account every time. Yuck.`
4. `xraru some-game`
5. `xraru sxiv defconownsyou.jpg`
6. `xraru dwm`
7. `xraru openoffice memo.ppx`

### Dependencies

* /bin/sh
* tightvnc
* Optional: `autocutsel` (Allows copy/paste through F8 menu in vncviewer. Not a permanently linked or extremely convenient clipboard)

## Buidling and installing

`$ make`

`# dontmake install # THIS INSTALLS AS SETUID. THINK TWICE AND READ THE CODE.`

## Gotchas

These are probably far more than listed. However, at least be aware of the following:

1. You probably want to `alias raru='env -i PATH=$PATH raru'`
2. `raru`, to work, is setuid.
3. If `raru` is not setuid, it may not error and silently give you a false sense of security. So run `raru whoami` just to be sure.
4. `raru ls .` does not work if 'everyone' does not have access to `.`.

## License

[Unlicense](LICENSE)/Public domain
